---
title: 'The Beginning'
date: 2024-11-30
permalink: /posts/2024/10/the-beginning/
tags:
  - philosophy
---

The Beginning
======

I intend, over the coming weeks, to educate myself on the topic of philosophy, in which I find myself sorely lacking at this current time.

I am writing this blog post, as the first in a series, to track how my worldview is altered by this experience. At this moment I have read no philosophy, picking up minor fragments from discussions with friends or my university degree in physics.

Axiomatic Basis
------

As I want to be fairly formal in my approach to this I will begin by laying out the axioms which I believe to govern my thought and action. It is likely that I will discover inconsistencies within my view of the world, hopefully finding these has a positive effect. It may well be that as we continue further necessary axioms emerge, or perhaps some can be stripped down.

1. The world exists.
2. The world is governed by laws.
3. I exist within the world.
3. The laws governing the world are the unchanging for all spaces and times that I interact with.
4. My perception of the world is a 'true' representation.
5. From a true representation inferences about the laws governing the world can be made.

I will also assume some fundamental axioms about logic which I will not detail here. I think the term for the axiomatic basis I adhere to in this regard is predicate logic but I hope that this will not devolve into a series of a implies b statements.

Justification
------

I want a fairly simple basis that nonetheless allows for scientific thought, inductive reasoning, and doesn't twist me in knots trying to explain why I believe my own perception. I feel the existence of the world and myself as a causal agent within it are required for this. Further, I need to be able to believe that the evolution of the world I exist within is predictable to me.

Experiential Evidence
------

