---
title: 'The Beginning'
date: 2024-10-30
permalink: /posts/2024/10/the-beginning/
tags:
  - philosophy
---

The Beginning
======

I intend, over the coming weeks, to educate myself on the topic of philosophy, in which I find myself sorely lacking at this current time.

I am writing this blog post, as the first in a series, to track how my worldview is altered by this learning. At this moment I have read no philosophy, picking up minor fragments from discussions with friends or my university degree in physics.

Axiomatic Basis
------

As I want to be fairly formal in my approach to this I will begin by laying out the axioms which I believe to govern my thought and action. It is likely that I will discover inconsistencies within my view of the world, hopefully finding these has a positive effect. It may well be that as we continue further necessary axioms emerge, or perhaps some can be stripped down.

1. The world exists.
2. The world is governed by laws.
3. I exist within the world.
3. The laws governing the world are the unchanging for all spaces and times that I interact with.
4. My perception of the world is a 'true' representation.
5. From a true representation inferences about the laws governing the world can be made.

Justification
------

1. This one seems necessary. How do I make any statements about existence without first positing it? In this axiom the world is the 'thing' I interact with.
2. For an agent to be able to act in our assumed world the world must be constrained by laws governing its evolution. I do not believe that I make any assumptions regarding the origin of these laws and will assume that they are just an inherent fact.
3. It seems a little pointless to reason about 
4. I do not want to be bogged down with justifying induction or the scientific method. Without this or the aforementioned axioms we cannot make rational decisions.I don't want to make claims regarding the laws' persistence beyond what is measurable.